The biggest asset that we have as a species
is our planet and we know that it’s under
some stress. This very famous graph here shows
the variation in carbon dioxide levels in
the atmosphere as a function of time. And
we can see that there is an inexorable upward
trend and that’s going to have all sorts
of consequences for life on this planet. So
we need to understand how the planet is responding
to all the different stresses that the growing
human population is placing on it.
During recent times, we become very good at
studying other planets. This is a lovely picture
that shows a number of the rover vehicles
that NASA has sent to Mars and these rovers
have made wonderful discoveries about what's
happened on that planet. In particular, they’ve
pretty much proven the fact that water once
existed on that planet. But what about our
own planet? Well, on our own planet we have
lots of scientists who spend a lot of their
time collecting data to try and get an update
on the health of the planet. But collecting
this kind of data is very, very labour intensive.
And here are some images of scientists collecting
specimens under water.
One of the problems with the expense of this
manual collection of data is that we can't
collect very much data. It’s not possible
to collect specimens or make measurements
at every point on the planet and nor can we
visit those points very often. So the sampling
that we do, the measurements that we make
are very sparse. We do not visit very many
places and we do not visit them very often.
The bottom line is that we are under sampling
the planet and that makes it difficult to
understand some of the underlying biological
and ecological processes that are occurring.
But what if it wasn't people collecting the
data? What if we sent robots out to do that
instead? And over the years many roboticists
have built robots for exactly this purpose,
for environmental data collection. Here we
have a robotic flying vehicle which can make
meteorological observations inside extreme
weather systems like cyclones or hurricanes.
This robot here was develop by Carnegie Mellon
University and has legs and the rapelling
cable which allows it to descend into the
crater of a volcano to make measurements of
liquids and gases there. Blimps have been
developed to make autonomous environmental
surveys of large areas of rainforest such
as in the Amazon basin.
This pretty spacey looking underwater vehicle
is use to explore sinkholes in Mexico. The
Nomad rover was also develop by Carnegie Mellon
University and was used to perform Antarctic
survey, in particular searching for fallen
meteorites. And the robotic boat here was
develop by colleagues of mine at CSIRO and
performed measurements of water quality over
the surface of a very large water storage.
A really interesting development is the Argo
float. And this map shows a snapshot of the
Argo floats around the world. These floats
are really very simple robots. They move up
and down the water column by controlling their
buoyancy. And as they move up and down in
the water column they measure temperature
and salinity and other physical parameters.
They drift in the currents of the ocean. So
they allow us to explore in three dimensions
what's going on in our oceans. If you're interested
in more information about the floats have
a look at this URL here. [Note:Replace URL
in Video]
Here is an example from colleagues at my University
who interested in the population of these
gentle creatures called dugongs. Dugongs can
be found all around the world but there's
a large population of them in Moreton Bay
which is the port just outside my city of Brisbane.
They used an unmanned aerial vehicle with
downward looking cameras to take pictures
from the air. And then some image processing
techniques to detect and count dugongs within
the bay. We don't have to send divers down
to find and count the dugongs. We can fly
over the bay to get automatic measurements
of how many dugongs there are and whereabouts
in the bay they are.
Now, an unmanned aerial vehicle or flying
robot that does this kind of survey has got
a limited endurance. It can only be in the
air for a certain amount of time before it
runs out of fuel. But a lot of researchers
are now starting to look at solar powered
robots. This is a picture of a solar powered
robot, again developed at my University, which
can stay in the air forever. And people are
looking at solar powered boats and solar powered
underwater vehicles and solar powered land
robots as well. So this is a technology which
allows us to put intelligent machines into
the environment where they can persistently
monitor the state of the planet and send back
lots of measurements taken at frequent intervals
and covering a large expanse of our planet's
surface.